---
title: Put
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 120
---

Since [vX.Y.Z](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/vX.Y.Z),
GoReleaser supports building and pushing artifacts to HTTP servers using simple HTTP PUT requests.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Put instances.
All binaries generated by your `builds` section will be pushed to each configured Put.

If you have only one Put instance, the configuration is as easy as adding the
upload target and a username to your `.goreleaser.yml` file:

```yaml
puts:
  - name: production
    target: http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    username: goreleaser
```

Prerequisites:

- An HTTP server accepting PUT requests
- A user + password with grants to upload an artifact using PUT requests (if the server requires it)

### Target

The `target` is the URL to upload the artifacts to (_without_ the name of the artifact).

An example configuration for `goreleaser` in upload mode `binary` with the target can look like

```yaml
- mode: binary
  target: 'http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/{{ .Os }}/{{ .Arch }}{{ if .Arm }}{{ .Arm }}{{ end }}'
```

and will result in an HTTP PUT request sent to `http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/goreleaser/1.0.0/Darwin/x86_64/goreleaser`.

Supported variables:

- Version
- Tag
- ProjectName
- Os
- Arch
- Arm

_Attention_: Variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ are only supported in upload mode `binary`.

### Password

Your configured username needs to be valid against your HTTP server.

The password will be stored in a environment variable.
The configured name of your HTTP server will be used.
This way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `PUT_<NAME>_SECRET`.
If your instance is named `production`, you need to store the secret in the
environment variable `PUT_PRODUCTION_SECRET`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
puts:
  # You can have multiple Put instances.
  -
    # Unique name of your Put instance. Used to identify the instance.
    name: production
    # Upload mode. Valid options are `binary` and `archive`.
    # If mode is `archive`, variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ for target name are not supported.
    # In that case these variables are empty.
    # Default is `archive`.
    mode: archive
    # URL to be used as target of the HTTP PUT request
    target: http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    # User that will be used for the deployment
    username: deployuser
```

These settings should allow you to push your artifacts into multiple HTTP servers.
